---
title: "Advanced Cs corrected STEM imaging coupled to 3D atom probe tomography"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 14:00
image: https://media.scandem2019.se/2019/05/Christina-Scheu.jpg
headerImage: true
tag:
- invited
- material sciences
- advanced imaging and diffraction
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Christina Scheu**_<br/>
Max-Planck-Institut für Eisenforschung, Düsseldorf, Germany<br/>

## Abstract

Correlating transmission electron microscopy (TEM) with atom probe tomography (APT) has been reported in literature, mainly using conventional TEM micrographs for defect analysis. In that way, dislocations or grain boundaries have been identified within atom probe needles and the 3D reconstructed tomograms used to determine e.g. segregation at 1D or 2D defects. Only few examples exist where APT has been coupled with high resolution STEM investigations. In our work we were interested to determine whether a quantitative analysis of e.g. strain state and coherency of an interface can be directly obtained from APT needles using aberration-corrected STEM prior to the field evaporation. A specific region of interest was analyzed first in an Cs corrected STEM, the data analyzed in depth by e.g. nearest neighbor analysis or comparison with reference lattices and subsequently investigated by 3D APT. Identical locations were studied which allowed to combine both – the superior spatial resolution of a STEM with the excellent chemical analysis of the APT. The time-of-flight detector within the APT allows to detect light elements like hydrogen and ppm impurity segregation to defects. On the other side, electron energy loss spectroscopy performed in the STEM gives the possibility to study e.g. oxidation states of individual atoms which are not accessible by APT. In the presentation, several examples will be discussed including the interface structure and strain state between nanometer-sized carbides in an austenitic steel matrix [1], grain boundaries in silicon [2] and thin oxide films used for watersplitting [3]. <br/>

## Acknowledgement
C. Liebscher, M. Lipińska-Chwalek, S. Zhang, M. Yao, A. Stoffers, O. Cojocaru-Miredin, B. Gault, D. Raabe and G. Dehm are gratefully acknowledged for the fruitful collaboration and contribution to the work.<br/>

## References
[1] Liebscher et al. Phys. Rev. Materials 2, (023804) (2018)<br/>
[2] Liebscher Phys. Rev. Lett. 121, (015702) (2018) <br/>
[3] Hufnagel et al. Adv. Func. Mater. 28 (52), 1804472 (2018)<br/>
