---
title: "Nilsson, S. | A Correlative Optical and Electron Microscopy Method for Understanding the Oxidation Mechanism of Single Cu Nanoparticles"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- material sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Sara Nilsson**, David Albinsson, Christoph Langhammer_.<br/>
Department of Physics, Chalmers University of Technology.<br/>


## Abstract

When metal nanoparticles oxidize, their electronic properties, as well as their shape and microstructure changes. At the same time, these parameters also dictate the catalytic activity. Hence, better understanding of nanoparticle oxidation processes in the context of catalysis has the potential to aid in optimizing catalyst performance and in prolonging their lifetime. However, despite the significant progress made in recent years towards the understanding of nanoparticle oxidation as such, still quite little is known about the detailed dynamics of oxide formation based on operando measurements with single nanoparticle resolution, due to the fact that for example in situ electron microscopy approaches are plagued by beam effects. Thus, to achieve monitoring of the oxidation process in real-time without affecting the process, novel “gentle” experimental methodologies are required.<br/>

In response, we present a method of correlative operando single nanoparticle optical dark-field scattering spectroscopy (DFSS), finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) electrodynamics simulations and post mortem transmission electron microscopy (TEM) that enables the non-invasive monitoring of oxidation state evolution in multiple single nanoparticles in parallel, and sheds light on the details of the oxidation mechanism. We demonstrate our approach on the example of copper (Cu) nanoparticles since both metallic Cu and the oxides Cu2O/CuO are excellent catalysts in numerous reactions, including the Fischer-Tropsch process and in particular methanol synthesis. As the key results obtained by our method, we find clear indications that the microstructure and in particular the grain boundaries of the NPs play a significant role in the oxidation process and that both the formation and growth of the oxide shell and the onset of Kirkendall void formation can be tracked for individual nanoparticles in operando by DFSS.<br/>
