---
title: "Nguyen, P. D. | Structural and optical properties of individual Zn2GeO4 particles embedded in ZnO"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- material sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Phuong Dan Nguyen**, Cecilie S. Granerød, Bjørn L. Aarseth, Calliope Bazioti, Alexander Azarov, Bengt G. Svensson, Lasse Vines, Øystein Prytz_.<br/>
Department of Physics, Centre for Materials Science and Nanotechnology, University of Oslo, PO Box 1048, Blindern, N-0316 Oslo, Norway.<br/>


## Abstract

Transparent Conductive Oxides (TCOs) have obtained a substantial popularity for optoelectronic applications due to a very interesting set of properties, such as very high mobility and conductivity, but also because the materials are easily tuned towards the desired functionality. Germanium (Ge) is particularly promising regarding the formation of nanoparticle in TCOs like zinc oxide (ZnO, one of the main TCOs for industrial applications). It has previously been shown that tunability is obtained by the size of the particles, which may significantly enhance the electrical and optical functionality of ZnO [1]. However, despite its many interesting properties for functionalization, this nanostructure has currently received very little attention. For further utilization, the particle formation, the interaction between the embedded particle and the ZnO matrix, and the size-dependency on the properties, are all remaining issues which needs to be accounted for. In this work, 800 keV Ge ions have been implanted at a dose of 1 × 1016 cm−2 into crystalline ZnO [2]. Embedded disk-shaped particles with diameters up to 100 nm are formed after annealing at 1000 °C. By employing atomic resolution Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) imaging, we have demonstrated that these particles are trigonal Zn2GeO4 phase. They have a preferred orientation with the ZnO matrix, as well as preferred growth direction. The particles are terminated by atomically sharp facets of the type {11-2 0}. Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) has been successfully applied to the analysis of individual Zn2GeO4 embedded particles to measure their band gap. An onset of band-to-band transitions at 5.03 ± 0.02 eV has been found. The findings from this work show that ZnO can be functionalized by Ge, while also illustrates the advantages of structural and optical characterization using sub-angstrom spatial and high energy resolution STEM and EELS methods.<br/>

## References

[1] Kamata Y., 2008 Mater. Today 11 30.<br/>
[2] Cecilie S Granerød et al, 2019 Nanotechnology 30 225702.<br/>
