---
title: "Holmér, J. | TBA"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- material sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Jonatan Holmér**<sup>1</sup>, Lunjie Zeng<sup>1</sup>, Thomas Kanne<sup>2</sup>, Peter Krogstrup<sup>2</sup>, Jesper Nygård<sup>2</sup>, Ludvig de Knoop<sup>1</sup>, Eva Olsson<sup>1</sup>._.<br/>
1 Chalmers University of Technology, Department of Physics, Sweden.<br/>  
2 University of Copenhagen, Niels Bohr Institute, Center for Quantum Devices and Station Q Copenhagen, Denmark.<br/>

## Abstract

Semiconductor nanowires are promising building-blocks for the next generation of photovoltaics. With diameters of a few hundred nanometers, vertical nanowires act as waveguides for the incoming sunlight and thereby enhance the light absorption. Optimization of the electrical and photovoltaic properties at the individual nanowire level is critical for the overall performance of the cell. Here characterization techniques play a vital role. Standard solar cell characterization methods do not reveal the contribution of individual nanowires. Techniques involving single nanowire lift-off alter the working conditions and generally demand complicated sample preparation.<br/>

**Methods**<br/>
In this work, we have developed a technique where a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) probe is operated inside a scanning electron microscope (SEM) for characterization of single as-grown semiconductor nanowires. The SEM provides live imaging with nanoscale resolution while the piezo-controlled STM-probe contacts individual nanowires forming a closed electrical circuit. Reproducible ohmic contacts between the STM-probe and the nanowires were established through electron beam induced Pt deposition and Joule heating. Photocurrent measurements were enabled by mounting a light emitting diode (LED) in the SEM chamber.<br/>

**Results**<br/>
Current – voltage (I-V) measurements in both dark and illuminated conditions were performed on single GaAs nanowires with built-in radial p-i-n junctions. The best performing nanowire had an apparent power conversion efficiency of around 11% under white LED illumination. Electron beam induced current (EBIC) maps were recorded to show the local charge separation ability within a nanowire. Furthermore, the STM-probe was used to bend single nanowires, which affected the I-V characteristics.<br/>

**Conclusions**<br/>
The in situ STM-SEM technique offers the possibility to investigate and compare the functional
properties of individual as-grown nanowires that are part of a nanowire solar cell. The properties can be directly linked to the structure of the individual nanowires. This may play a key role in the further improvement of nanowire solar cells.<br/>
