---
title: "Bazioti, C. | STEM-EELS investigation of defect formation and thermal evolution in ZnO."
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 07:57
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- material sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Calliope Bazioti**, Vegard S. Olsen,  Alexander Azarov, Andrej Kuznetzov, Lasse Vines, Øystein Prytz_.<br/>
Department of Physics, University of Oslo.<br/>

## Abstract

Point and extended defects, as well as their complexes with dopants, influence almost all physical properties of semiconductors and their role in device performance is detrimental. Hence, identifying different defect-types and understanding their formation mechanism and evolution is crucial for mastering semiconductor properties. During the past decade, ZnO, a wide band-gap semiconductor (3.4 eV at RT) with high exciton binding energy (~60 meV) has been at the focus of scientific interest due to its promising versatile applications. In our study, a systematic, atomic-scale investigation of ion implanted ZnO single crystals and magnetron-sputtered (ZnO)1-X(GaN)X thin films was performed, before and after thermal annealing [1-2].<br/>

Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy combined with Electron Energy-Loss Spectroscopy (STEM-EELS) is a unique tool for both imaging and spectroscopy at atomic scale. In the present work, an atomically resolved STEM-EELS study was performed, allowing correlation between atomic structure and elemental information. Simultaneous acquisition of annular bright field (ABF), annular dark field (ADF) and high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) images was conducted, providing very different but complementary views of the same defected region. Geometric Phase Analysis (GPA) was applied for the nanoscale localization of strained regions. Results were compared with Rutherford Backscattering Spectrometry (RBS) and defect generation profiles were obtained by Monte Carlo simulations using the TRIM code. STEM-EELS investigations were conducted on an FEI Titan G2 60-300 kV equipped with a CEOS DCOR probe-corrector and monochromator.<br/>

The correlation of the observed extended defects with interstitial precipitations and vacancy clustering is elucidated. Detection of dopant-vacancy complexes is made in order to identify the driving force for the formation and thermal evolution of the induced defects. Results showed that defect formation heavily depends on the implanted ions and thermal annealing plays a detrimental role in defect evolution, promoting defect segregation at grain boundaries, threading dislocations and vacancy-clusters.<br/>

## References
[1] V. S. Olsen, C. Bazioti, G. Baldissera, A. Azarov, Ø. Prytz, C. Persson, B. G. Svensson, A. Y. Kuznetsov, and L. Vines, Phys. Status Solidi B, 1800529 (2019).<br/>
[2] V. S. Olsen, C. Bazioti, A. Azarov, B.G. Svensson, A. Kuznetsov, Ø. Prytz, and L.Vines, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 34(7pp), 015001 (2019).<br/>
