---
title: "Neděla, V. | Low-dose imaging of freshwater rotifers in their original state using advanced ESEM."
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:04
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Vilém Neděla**,<sup>1</sup> Eva Tihlaříková,<sup>1</sup> Evangelia Michaloudi, <sup>2</sup> Spiros Papakostas,<sup>3</sup> Georgia Stamou,<sup>2</sup> Wei Zhang,<sup>4</sup> and Steven A.J Declerck<sup>4</sup>_.<br/>
1 Institute of Scientific Instruments, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Brno, Czech Republic.<br/>
2 Department of Zoology, School of Biology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Τhessaloniki, Greece.<br/>
3 Division of Genetics and Physiology, Department of Biology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.<br/>
4 Netherlands Institute of Ecology, Department of Aquatic Ecology, Wageningen, The Netherlands f Botany of the CAS, Brno, Czech Republic.<br/>

## Abstract

The method of environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM) allows direct observation of natural, electrically non-conductive and semi-conductive samples of fully hydrated or wet samples of plants as well as small living animals free of charging artefacts. However, wet samples in their fresh state are very susceptible to destruction by free radicals, local heating, and/or drying. Consequently, their study requires improved ESEM approaches such as new detection systems as well as advanced methods.<br/>

Ionisation Secondary Electron Detector with an Electrostatic Separator (ISEDS) [1] is a novel high-efficiency detector capable of imaging samples with low signal-electron emission coefficient under an extremely low beam current of 0.2 pA, beam energy of 5 keV and water vapour pressure up to 500 Pa. In order to eliminate above-mentioned complications with the observation of susceptible wet samples, a Low Temperature Method (LTM) for ESEM has been developed. The new method allows the preservation of sample surface morphology, improved sample resistance to beam damage and the possibility of observations at higher resolution [2].<br/>

Altogether, the combined use of ISEDS and LTM for ESEM pushes the limits of ESEM and opens up possibilities for new research that have not been possible yet. We present results of a morphological study of the Brachionus calyciflorus cryptic species complex, a commonly studied freshwater monogonont rotifer and present world’s first images of rotifers observed in their natural hence fully hydrated state using electron microscopy [3] [4].<br/>

## References
[1] V Nedela et al, Ultramicroscopy 184(A) (2018), p. 1.<br/>
[2] E Tihlarikova et al, Scientific Report 19 (2019).<br/>
[3] E Michaloudi et al, PloS One 13(9) (2018).<br/>
[4] The project was supported by the Grant Agency of Czech Republic GA 19-03909S and by the Technology Agency of Czech Republic TAČR TN01000008.<br/>
