---
title: "Dutta, T. | Discerning the micropolarity of endoplasmic reticulum under cellular stress with high-resolution fluorescence microscopy"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Tanoy Dutta**, Apurba L Koner_.<br/>
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal, Bhopal Bypass Road, Bhauri, Bhopal-462066, Madhya Pradesh, India.<br/>


## Abstract

Abstract: The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is one of the most important multifunctional organelles present in eukaryotic cells associated with the synthesis and transport of secretary as well as membrane proteins, their folding, and lipid metabolism.[1] The post-translational modification along with glycosylation of proteins are also regulated by ER. During the G1 phase of the cell cycle, proteins are synthesized to prepare for the DNA synthesis in S phase whereas proteins required for cell division are synthesized during the G2 phase.[2] However, such homeostasis is unsettled due to the accumulation of the misfolded and unfolded proteins in ER which in turn results to the ER stress leading to several fatal symptoms and diseases like neurodegeneration, cardiovascular aberration, diabetes, and cancer.[3] Accumulation of such proteins is also known to alter the ER polarity.[4] Hence, the micro-polarity inside ER is expected to be a fundamental physical parameter to understand cellular health.<br/>

In the present study, we developed a series of novel nitrobenzoxadiazole (NBD)-based fluorophores for selective targeting and discerning of ER polarity alteration of live cells in different stress levels. The ER polarity was measured in the spectral scanning mode of a confocal laser scanning microscope. The micro-polarity inside ER resembled that of acetonitrile in a healthy condition. However, upon treatment with cell-cycle disrupter such as tunicamycin and 5-Fluorouracil induced ER stress causes gradually increases in ER polarity. The micropolarity under stress resembles ethylene glycol like environment.<br/>

Taken together, these results suggest that the custom-made probe is a promising tool to monitor the cell physiology directly correlated with micropolarity and therefore to diagnose diseases pertinent to ER stress.<br/>

## References
[1] D. L. Nelson, M. M. Cox, A. L. Lehninger, Lehninger principles of biochemistry, 4th ed., W.H. Freeman and Company, New York, 2004.<br/>
[2] I. A. Shaltiel, L. Krenning, W. Bruinsma, R. H. Medema, J. Cell Sci., 2015, 128, 607-620.<br/>
[3] D. Ron, P. Walter, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol., 2007, 8, 519-529.<br/>
[4] H. B. Xiao, C. C. Wu, P. Li, T. G. Bo, Anal. Chem., 2018, 90, 6081-6088.<br/>
