---
title: "Lin, Y-L | Multiplexed optical DNA mapping to identify plasmids and their resistance genes"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**NAME**_.<br/>
1 Address.<br/>

_**Yii-Lih Lin**<sup>1</sup>, Sriram KK<sup>1</sup>, Tsegaye Sewunet<sup>2,3</sup>, Shoeib Nematzadeh,<sup>3</sup> Christian G. Giske<sup>3,4</sup>, Fredrik Westerlund<sup>1</sup>_.<br/>
1 Department of Biology and Biological Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden.<br/>
2 School of Laboratory sciences, Department of Microbiology, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.<br/>
3 Division of Clinical microbiology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.<br/>
4 Clinical microbiology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.<br/>

## Abstract

Multi-drug resistant bacteria have become a major threat to health worldwide. In 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) classified antibiotic resistance as one of the major threats to human health. The resistance is frequently transmitted via mobile genetic elements, such as plasmids. Therefore, it is essential to develop fast methods to rapidly detect and characterize plasmids and their resistance genes.<br/>

We have earlier developed a method based on optical DNA mapping in nanofluidic channels for plasmid characterization. The method is based on a competitive binding strategy that fluorescently labels the DNA, creating intensity profiles, ‘barcodes’, that reflect the GC-content, along DNA. For plasmids carrying antibiotic resistance genes, the barcodes are unique and can be used for rapid identification and characterization. Moreover, by using CRISPR/Cas9 we can locate specific antibiotic resistance genes along the plasmids.<br/>

This report demonstrates an improved method to increase the throughput of nanofluidic optical DNA mapping of plasmids. For hospitals having concerns of infection outbreaks, tens to hundreds of patients’ samples might need to be analyzed, and our novel device provides an approach to rapidly identify plasmids and their resistance genes. Specifically, 10 sets of 400 nanofluidic channels were parallelly implemented and these channels can all be addressed at the same time. The data collection was automated, and within 2h of microscopy imaging, typically 1000-2000 plasmid images are obtained from each of the 10 sets of nanochannels.  DNA molecules are then clustered according to their extension and intensity values and followed by DNA barcode pattern comparisons. By combining the automated and parallelized data collection with a protocol for rapid isolation of plasmids from fecal samples, we are able to characterize the plasmids in the multiplexed device the same day the samples were collected.<br/>
