---
title: "Prasad, S. | Role of radixin in modulation of outer hair cell stereocilia functions"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Sonal Prasad**, Anders Fridberger_.<br/>
Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine (IKE), Linköping University.<br/>

## Abstract

Previous data has shown that the axial stiffness of outer hair cell bundles is actively regulated, but the molecules that could underlie this stiffness modulation has not been determined. We hypothesize that radixin could be involved in the modulation of stereocilia stiffness and length. Radixin is a cytoskeletal protein which binds actin filaments to the plasma membrane. It is found at a higher concentration at the base of stereocilia in guinea pigs. To test this hypothesis, we used the quinocarmycin analog DX-52-1 to prevent radixin activation. DX-52-1 binds strongly and specifically to radixin.<br/>

Temporal bones were excised from young normal hearing guinea pigs, and a small opening was made at the cochlea’s base and at the apex. Special double-barrelled electrodes were used for cochlear microphonic recording, electrical stimulation, staining of the bundle membrane with the membrane dye Di-3-ANEPPDHQ, and delivery of radixin inhibitor DX-52-1 (1.0mM). In order to visualize the sound-evoked motion of stereocilia, sequences of confocal images were acquired during sound stimulation. The extracellular potentials are tuned to a particular sound stimulus of 84 dB SPL frequency near 220 Hz to get a maximum response. Quantitative confocal imaging was performed on a Zeiss LSM 780. The acquired image sequences were low-pass filtered and motion quantified through optical flow analysis using Matlab.<br/>

When the radixin blocker was introduced, a pronounced change in the sound-evoked bundle deflections was observed with the motion both at the base and the tip of the bundle increased. Paradoxically, electrically evoked motility increased after the application of DX-52-1. Inhibition of radixin also led to a change in the properties of the stereocilia as evidenced by seeing a significantly faster recovery of bundle fluorescence after blocker addition. We observed reduction in the amplitudes of the cochlear microphonic potential and elevated CAPs threshold after the application of the blocker.<br/>

The regulatory mechanism of radixin in the hearing organ influences several aspects of hair cell function most importantly electromotility including the bundle movements. This change in outer hair cell function could contribute strongly to the control of hearing sensitivity in adults.<br/>
