---
title: "Grant, S. | Refractive index mapping of algal cells using the transport of intensity equation"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Stephen Grant**<sup>1</sup>, David McKee<sup>1</sup>, Brian Patton<sup>1</sup>, Heidi Burdett<sup>2</sup>_.<br/>
1 Department of Physics and SUPA, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow G4 0NG, Scotland.<br/>
2 The Lyell Centre, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH14 4AP.<br/>

## Abstract

Phase contrast microscopy allows stain free imaging of transparent biological samples. The transport of intensity equation (TIE), first described by Teague in 1983 [1], allows for phase microscopy to be carried out using a simple experimental set up. By exploiting the relationship between the phase in the focal plane and the intensity differential between two defocused images a set distance δz away, one can reconstruct the phase in the focal plane and produce phase maps of unstained biological samples. As this method provides the optical path length from the images [2], relative refractive index information can also be extracted.<br/>

Using the TIE method as outlined by Davis [3], and running on low-cost, open-source hardware, we applied the TIE to living algal cells to determine their refractive index. The refractive index values obtained for the algal cells were found to differ from the background water refractive index values by distinct amounts depending on the species being measured. This provides a method of discrimination between different algal species and, potentially non-biological materials, based on refractive index which may have implications in algal bloom detection and prevention, and climate sciences.<br/>

The work was carried out using multiple systems; a ‘lab-prototype’ using a high cost IDS camera, the same system with a low cost Raspberry Pi camera, and a third 3D printed budget microscope using a Raspberry Pi camera and inverted camera lens as an objective [4]. Comparing the three apparatus allowed us to determine the viability of this method as a low cost tool and it was found that the low-end version performed comparably to the higher spec systems.<br/>

## References
[1]  M.   R.   Teague. Deterministic   phase   retrieval:a   green’s   function   solution.J.Opt.  Soc.  Am.,  73(11):1434–1441,  Nov  1983. doi:10.1364/JOSA.73.001434. URL: http://www.osapublishing.org/abstract.cfm?URI=josa-73-11-1434.<br/>
[2]  A.  Jesacher,  P.  S.  Salter,  and  M.  J.  Booth.   Refractive  index  profiling  of  direct  laserwritten  waveguides: tomographic  phase  imaging.Optical  Materials  Express,  3(9):1223–1232,  September  2013.ISSN  2159-3930. doi:   10.1364/OME.3.001223. URL: https://www.osapublishing.org/ome/abstract.cfm?uri=ome-3-9-1223.<br/>
[3]  Q.  T.  Davis.   Transport  of  Intensity  Equation  Microscopy  for  Dynamic  Microtubules. arXiv:1707.04139  [physics,  q-bio],  July 2017. URL:http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.04139.arXiv:  1707.04139.<br/>
[4]  James  P.  Sharkey,  Darryl  C.  W.  Foo,  Alexandre  Kabla,  Jeremy  J.  Baumberg,  and Richard  W.  Bowman.   A  one-piece  3D  printed  flexure  translation  stage  for  open-source microscopy. Review  of  Scientific Instruments, 87(2):025104, Feb 2016. ISSN 0034-6748,1089-7623. doi: 10.1063/1.4941068.<br/>
