---
title: "Ermund, A. | Visualizing invisible mucus"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 08:00
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
- poster
- life sciences
category: abstracts
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Anna Ermund<sup>1</sup>**, Lauren N. Meiss<sup>1</sup>, Andrea Bähr<sup>2</sup>, Nikolai Klymiuk<sup>2</sup>, Gunnar C. Hansson<sup>1</sup>_.<br/>
1 Department of Biomedical Chemistry and Cell Biology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden.<br/>
2 Institute of Molecular Animal Breeding and Biotechnology, Gene Center, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Munich, Germany.<br/>


## Abstract

Mucus is the first line of defense against potentially harmful microbes. If this defense fails, the result may be a variety of disease, from ulcerative colitis to cystic fibrosis. The goal of the project is to study the structure and function of invisible and sticky mucus. To that end we had to develop techniques to specifically stain mucus components and visualize them in live tissue. In addition, we wanted to study the ultrastructure of mucus in situ. Therefore, highly glycosylated mucins, which confer the mucus structure, had to be visualized in samples from intestine and airways for studies of ultrastructure using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. This was a challenge because conventional contrasting protocols do not stain sugars but lipids and proteins. Using stereo microscopy and charcoal particles to visualize the mucus surface, we have identified the importance of bicarbonate via the ion channel CFTR for formation of normal, non-attached mucus in the ileum, where the structural component in the mucus is the mucin MUC2. In cystic fibrosis, when CFTR mutations render CFTR malfunctioning, mucus is attached. Thus, lack of bicarbonate leads to attached mucus. These experiments were complemented by confocal microscopy to determine penetrability of bacteria-sized beads in the mucus. In cystic fibrosis, lack of bicarbonate prevented unfolding and expansion of the mucus, making it impenetrable to beads and masking the cleavage site of the enzyme meprin beta. Mucus is attached when meprin beta is absent or when the cleavage site is hidden in the MUC2 structure. In the airways, we could identify mucus bundles from submucosal glands responsible for airway cleaning by using the mucus-specific dye Alcian blue. This new approach made it possible for us to introduce a new concept for mucociliary clearance. Specific staining of the airway mucins MUC5AC and MUC5B revealed attachment of the mucus bundles to surface goblet cells and pinpointed MUC5AC as potential target of drugs to treat immobile mucus and restore airway cleaning in diseases such as cystic fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.<br/>
