---
title: "Zou X. | Automated 3D electron diffraction techniques for high-throughput phase analysis and ab initio structure determination – from inorganics to proteins"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 14:00
image: https://media.scandem2019.se/2019/05/Xiaodong-Zou.jpg
headerImage: true
tag:
- invited
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Xiaodong Zou**, Xiaodong Zou, Wei Wan, Hongyi Xu, Bin Wang, Stef Smeets_<br/>
Department of Materials and Environmental Chemistry, Stockholm University<br/>

## Abstract

X-ray diffraction is currently the most widely used technique for phase analysis and ab initio structure determination. Although electron diffraction (ED) requires thousands times less samples and million times smaller crystals compared to X-ray diffraction, it has not yet been widely used. The main reason is that ED patterns were collected mainly along zone axes, which requires TEM skills and is time consuming.<br/>

Our group has been working on developing 3D ED techniques to overcome these limitations. We developed rotation electron diffraction (RED) and corresponding software for data collection and processing [1,2]. Using RED data, my group has solved more than 100 complex structures. We show that despite the presence of dynamical effects, ab initio structure determination from 3D ED data is robust and can be applied to inorganic, organic and protein crystals. The structural models are accurate [3].<br/>

To fully automated data collection and data analysis, we developed serial electron diffraction (SerialED) by taking ED patterns (snapshots) of individual particles [4] and recently serial rotation electron diffraction (SerialRED) by combining RED data collection with SerialED.  In SerialED, snapshot ED patterns from more than > 3500 particles can be collected automatically in less than one hour on a standard TEM. We have developed methods and software for automated particle detection, crystal tracking, data collection and processing [5]. The large number of particles makes it possible for phase analysis and for detection of minor phases in the sample.<br/>

We expect that the SerialRED in combination with hierarchical cluster analysis will make 3D ED a promising technique for high throughput phase analysis and ab initio structure determination.<br/>

## References

[1]	D. Zhang, S. Hovmöller, P. Oleynikov, X. Zou, Z. Kristallogr. 2010, 225, 94.<br/>
[2]	W. Wan, J.L. Sun, J. Su, S. Hovmoller, X Zou, J. Appl. Cryst. 2013, 46, 1863.<br/>
[3]	   Y.  Wang, T. Yang, H. Xu, X. Zou, W. Wan, J. Appl. Cryst. 2018, 51, 1094 <br/>
[4]	S. Smeets, X. Zou, W. Wan, J. Appl. Cryst. 2018, 51, 1262.<br/>
[5]	B. Wang, X. Zou, S. Smeets, 2019, submitted.<br/>
