---
title: "Wagner, J. B. | Dynamics of material surfaces and interfaces – the good, the bad and the electron beam"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 14:00
image: https://media.scandem2019.se/2018/11/JakobWagner.jpg
headerImage: true
tag:
- invited
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Jakob Birkedal Wagner**_<br/>
Center for Electron Nanoscopy, DTU, Denmark<br/>

## Abstract

A good understanding of the dynamics and formation mechanisms of surfaces and interfaces at the nanometer scale is of great importance in order to exploit the controllability of nanostructures and their applications in photovoltaics, electronics, sensors, etc. on an industrial scale.<br/>

In situ electron microscopy serves a unique platform for monitoring and studying structural dynamics at length scales from micrometer down to atomic scale and temporal resolution approaching millisecond range. In addition, elemental and chemical information is gained from spectroscopic techniques with spatial resolution approaching the atomic scale.<br/>

Here, I will present a few cases of the surface and interface dynamics studied at the microscopy facility at Technical University of Denmark. This includes surface dynamics of supported nanoparticles (catalyst) [1] under harsh environment (elevated temperature, gas and electron beam), as well as interface dynamics of grain boundaries in metal thin films [2], growth of nanostructures from bottom-up processes [3-6] and volatility of soot oxidation catalysts. [7]<br/>

The influence of the high-energetic electron beam will also be discussed in terms of sample damage and controlled reaction enhancement.<br/>

## References

[1] P. Liu, PhD thesis (2018), Technical Unity of Denmark <br/>
[2] A. Bastos Fanta et al. Materials Characterization 139, 452 (2018)<br/>
[3] J. Kling et al. Carbon 99, 261 (2016)<br/>
[4] L.. Zhang et al. ACS Nano 11, 4483 (2017)<br/>
[5] S. Rackauskas et al., Scientific Reports 7, 12310 (2017)<br/>
[6] W. F. van Dorp et al., Nanotechnology 24, 345301 (2013)<br/>
[7] D. Gardini et al., Appl. Catal. B, 183, 28 (2016)<br/>
