---
title: "Elemental Imaging of Inorganic Nanoparticles in 3D Using Single Particle Reconstruction"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 02:00
headerImage: false
tag:
- contributed
- material sciences
- quantitative imaging
- high spatial resolution spectroscopy
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Thomas Slater**<sup>1</sup>, Yichi Wang<sup>2</sup>, Sarah Haigh<sup>3</sup>, Gerard Leteba<sup>4</sup>, Candace Lang<sup>5</sup>, Angus Kirkland<sup>6</sup>_<br/>

1, Diamond Light Source. <br/>
2, University of Manchester. <br/>
3, University of Manchester. <br/>
4, University of Cape Town. <br/>
5, Macquarie University.<br/>
6, University of Oxford.<br/>

## Abstract
Characterising the distribution of elements within bimetallic or multi-metallic nanoparticles is of particular importance to understand their catalytic or optical properties. Elemental imaging in three dimensions is possible using either energy dispersive X-ray (EDX)  or electron energy loss (EEL) spectroscopic tomography [1-3], in which a spectrum image is acquired at a number of sample tilt angles. However, this type of characterisation imparts a particularly high electron fluence to the specimen, particularly when trying to achieve nanometre (or better) resolution.<br/>

We demonstrate the application of a single particle reconstruction approach to obtain a three dimensional reconstruction of the elemental distribution in PtNi nanoparticles [4]. This is possible on the population of PtNi nanoparticles studied here due to their narrow distribution in size and morphology. High angle annular dark field (HAADF) images are used to define the orientation of each individual nanoparticle, which is then assigned to the corresponding EDX maps. The application of this primarily biologically relevant technique allows a two order of magnitude reduction in the electron fluence applied to an individual nanoparticle, in comparison to the equivalent experiment using a standard tomographic tilt series.<br/>

From the elemental reconstruction we observe segregation of Pt to specific nanoparticle vertices, in addition to a core-shell structure within the particles. From high resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) imaging we are able to obtain the direction of specific zone axes within the nanoparticles and therefore reconstruct an approximate averaged atomic model, in which the atoms can be assigned to be Pt or Ni based on the quantified composition at each voxel.<br/>

## References
[1] T. J. A. Slater et al., STEM-EDX tomography of bimetallic nanoparticles: A methodological investigation. 162, 61-73 (2016).<br/>
[2] B. Goris, L. Polavarapu, S. Bals, G. Van Tendeloo, L. M. Liz-Marzan, Monitoring galvanic replacement through three-dimensional morphological and chemical mapping. Nano letters 14, 3220-3226 (2014).<br/>
[3] G. Haberfehlner, A. Orthacker, M. Albu, J. Li, G. Kothleitner, Nanoscale voxel spectroscopy by simultaneous EELS and EDS tomography. Nanoscale 6, 14563-14569 (2014).<br/>
[4] Y. C. Wang et al., Imaging Three-Dimensional Elemental Inhomogeneity in Pt-Ni Nanoparticles Using Spectroscopic Single Particle Reconstruction. Nano Letters 19, 732-738 (2019)<br/>
