---
title: "Bone Beyond Borders – Monetite-Based Calcium Phosphate Induces Bone Formation Outside The Skeletal Envelope In An Ovis Aries Occipital Bone Model"
layout: post
date: 2021-08-25 14:00
image: 
headerImage: false
tag:
- contributed
- preclinical
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Martina Jolic**<sup>1</sup>, Furqan A. Shah<sup>1</sup>, Chiara Michelleti<sup>1,2</sup>, Omar Omar<sup>1</sup>, Lena Emanuelsson<sup>1</sup>, Birgitta Norlindh<sup>1</sup>, Håkan Engqvist<sup>3</sup>, Thomas Engstrand<sup>4,5</sup>, Anders Palmquist<sup>1</sup>, Peter Thomsen<sup>1</sup>_

1 Department of Biomaterials, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden

2 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, McMaster University, Hamilton, L8S 4L8 Ontario, Canada

3 Department of Engineering Sciences, Applied Materials Science Section, Uppsala University, 75121 Uppsala, Sweden

4 Stockholm Craniofacial Centre, Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Plastic Surgery Section, Karolinska University Hospital and Karolinska Institutet, 17176 Stockholm, Sweden

5 Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden

## Abstract

Calcium phosphates (CaP) are universally used as bone graft substitute materials. Hollow, dome-shaped, constructs consisting predominantly of monetite (~85%), with beta-tricalcium phosphate (β-TCP; ~8%), calcium pyrophosphate (Ca-PP; ~7%), and reinforced with an additively manufactured Ti6Al4V ELI frame were placed on the occipital bone of Ovis aries (n = 7) to induce bone formation beyond the skeletal envelope. Following 52 weeks in vivo, the constructs with associated bone were excised and analysed. X-ray micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) revealed that although the underlying native bone (NB), being the outer table of the calvarium, exhibits a strong cortical-type character (bone volume fraction of ~92%), the extraskeletal bone (EB) is also reminiscent of compact/cortical bone, occupying a large proportion of the available hollow space of the dome (bone volume fraction of ~75%). Resin embedded, 40 µm thick sections were prepared and used for histological analyses. Fluorescence microscopy was used to precisely count the resin-infiltrated osteocyte lacunae and assess the bone quality of EB by determining the osteocyte density (N.Ot/B.Ar) in comparison to NB. For this purpose, we exploited the autofluorescence generated by the impurities within the embedding resin, which allowed for a more accurate quantification of osteocytes (Ot) than conventional bright-field microscopy. With N.Ot/B.Ar of 554 ± 66 per mm2 in EB and 471 ± 104 per mm2 in NB there is no significant difference (p = 0.091) between EB and NB. However, within EB, N.Ot/B.Ar of woven bone regions is ~110% higher than that of lamellar bone regions (p = 0.018) which suggests extremely active bone turnover. Additionally, we used polarised light microscopy to confirm the demarcated areas of woven and lamellar bone. With ~38% of woven bone area measured in EB, bone formation is still ongoing, even after 52 weeks in vivo, and presence of active remodelling/turnover suggests that EB has not yet acquired a ‘steady-state’. In conclusion, bone formed beyond the physiological/skeletal envelope in response to a multi-component CaP implant-biomaterial is comparable in terms of composition and microstructure to the native bone of the calvarium.
