---
title: "Kay, E. | Endosomal escape of an antisense oligonucleotide revealed by NanoSIMS and TEM"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 02:00
headerImage: false
tag:
- contributed
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Emma Kay**<sup>1</sup>, Najafinobar, N.<sup>2</sup>, Thomen, A.<sup>3</sup>, Stulz, R.<sup>14</sup>, Dahlén, A.<sup>4</sup>, Drury, W. J.<sup>4</sup>, Knerr, L.<sup>4</sup>, Pielach, A.<sup>5</sup>, Ämmälä, C.<sup>1</sup>, Andersson, S.<sup>6</sup>, Kurczy, M.<sup>6</sup>_<br/>
1.Bioscience, Early Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism, R&D BioPharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden <br/>
2.Early product development, Pharmaceutical Sciences, R&D BioPharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden <br/>
3.Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden <br/>
4.Chemistry, Early Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism, R&D BioPharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden <br/>
5.Centre for Cellular Imaging, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden <br/>
6.DMPK, Early Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism, R&D BioPharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden<br/>

## Abstract

Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are of therapeutic interest for reducing the expression of specific mRNAs, but the delivery of ASOs both across the cell membrane and to specific target cell types remains a challenge. Recently it was discovered that conjugating ASOs to a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) analogue enables ASO targeting to pancreatic β cells, via GLP1 receptor mediated endocytosis. This leads to specific knockdown of gene expression, both in vitro and in vivo. Following endocytosis GLP1-ASO conjugates traffick to endosomes, but to interact with target mRNA, the ASO must ’escape’ from the endosome and this presumably implies a cleavage of the GLP1-ASO conjugate and the liberation of the ASO (or a closely related metabolite). However, the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. Here we have developed novel methodology using both nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (NanoSIMS) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to precisely quantify and localise GLP1-ASO in HEK293 cells overexpressing GLP1R. We developed a GLP1-ASO conjugate double labelled with iodine and 34S (I2-GLP1-34S19-ASO) to enable separate detection of I2-GLP1 (via diiodotyrosine) and 34S19-ASO (via 34S phosphorothioate backbone) in the same cell with NanoSIMS. We determined that within 30 minutes following incubation of cells with this conjugate, I2-GLP1 was located in endosomes at a concentration of 20-50µM, but surprisingly 34S19-ASO was not detectable in endosomes. Using immunofluorescence detection and confocal microscopy of GLP1R-HEK293 cells incubated for 30 minutes with I2-GLP1-34S19-ASO, we detected 34S19-ASO in endosomes and in the cytoplasm, but also in the nucleus where GLP1 is not located. We propose a mechanism whereby GLP1-ASOs rapidly internalise to endosomes from which the ASO decouples from GLP1 and at least partially escapes the endosome within 30 minutes. The ASO then trafficks to the cytoplasm/nucleus where it interacts with its target. Future studies will focus on characterising earlier kinetics of ASO release from endosomes.  Mapping ASO trafficking will hopefully guide the development of potent GLP1-ASOs with therapeutic potential. <br/>
