---
title: "Müller, V. | Detecting Pathogenic Bacteria with a Smartphone"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 02:00
headerImage: false
tag:
- contributed
- life sciences
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Vilhelm Müller**<sup>(a)</sup>, José M. Sousa <sup>(b)</sup>, Hatice C. Koydemir <sup>(c)</sup>, Muhammed Veli <sup>(c)</sup>, Derek Tseng <sup>(c)</sup>, Laura Cerqueira <sup>(b)</sup>, Aydogan Ozcan <sup>(c)</sup>, Nuno F. Azevedo <sup>(b)</sup> ,  Fredrik Westerlund <sup>(a)</sup>_<br/>
(a) Dept. Biology and Biological Engineering @ Chalmers (Sweden) <br/>
(b) Dept. Chemical Engineering @ University of Porto (Portugal) <br/>
(c) Dept. Electrical and Computer Engineering @ UCLA (USA)<br/>

## Abstract

At present, diagnostics based on fluorescence imaging of biological samples is generally not well suited for remote and resource limited settings. We here present a cost-efficient, compact and lightweight smartphone-based fluorescence microscope capable of acquiring images of individual bacterial cells. We show how we can selectively target and image pathogenic bacteria in complex samples via an optimized peptide nucleic acid (PNA) fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) assay. We compare our setup with a conventional benchtop fluorescence microscope, demonstrating that the limit of detection is at least as good when using the smartphone-based fluorescence microscope. Moreover, we demonstrate how pathogenic cronobacter bacteria can rapidly be detected in spiked powdered infant formula (PIF) with initial bacterial concentrations as low as 1 colony forming unit (CFU) per 3 g of PIF sample. There is no need for additional data analysis since the bacteria are directly visible on the smartphone screen. We foresee that the smartphone-based microscope in combination with the PNA-FISH based assay could be adapted for identifying pathogenic bacteria in clinical samples. Furthermore, the smartphone-based microscope itself can potentially be used in a variety of other fluorescence based diagnostic assays. <br/>
