---
title: "Olsén, E. | Sub-micron particle tracking and cellular dynamics investigated using combined digital holographic and fluorescent imaging"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-23 02:00
headerImage: false
tag:
- contributed
- life sciences
category: projects
author:
#description: Markdown summary with different options
---

_**Erik Olsén**<sup>1</sup>, Daniel Midtvedt <sup>2</sup>, Fredrik Eklund <sup>1</sup>, Elin K. Esbjörner <sup>3</sup>, Fredrik Höök <sup>1</sup>_<br/>
1, Department of Physics, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden. <br/>
2, Department of Physics, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.<br/>
3, Department of Biology and Biological Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden<br/>

## Abstract

Biological cells are continuously changing and are often considerably different from one another. Traditionally, fluorescent labelling strategies and ensemble averaging biomolecular techniques have been the main tools used to investigate cellular processes. However, these methods are also connected with limitations, as for example the risk that labelling could disturb the cells’ native state. To overcome these limitations, interferometric based approaches such as digital holographic microscopy (DHM) have gained a lot of interest during the last decade due to its ease of use and quantitative information content. By using DHM to get quantitative phase information with sub-cellular resolution, we recently showed that it is possible to isolate the production rate of higher molecular weight compounds from the cellular water flux, and without introduction of labels, we could identify the produced compounds based on the product of their refractive index increment (dn/dc) and molar mass during an osmotic shock.[1] Since this information could be obtained at the single cell level, it was also possible to resolve differences in properties depending on the size of the cells. When using DHM it is also possible to reconstruct the electric field throughout the sample volume, which enables both the mass and volume of sub-micrometre objects to be tracked in a time resolved manner as particles move in three dimensions. By taking the integrated phase shift of sub-micrometre particles we have in follow up studies shown that it is possible to separate particles which are similar in size but with different refractive index, and particle clusters from isolated particles. Based on these observations, we presently explore the possibility to use a combined DHM and fluorescence setup to track the mass and volume of predefined compartments within cells, such as for example temporal changes in mass upon uptake via the endosomal pathway, in the search for new insights in the cellular properties and dynamics with minimal perturbations of the cells native state.<br/>

## References
[1] Midtvedt, D.; Olsén, E.; Höök, F.; Jeffries, G. D. M., Label-free spatio-temporal monitoring of cytosolic mass, osmolarity, and volume in living cells. Nat Commun 2019, 10, 340.<br/>
